So we've been playing with this
little chunk of code here,
the code that's going to do our spidering,
we've spidered two pages.
I think it's probably, and we've looked at
a little bit of what goes in the database.
We've got the links.
We've got the Links table,
we've seen how the Pages table grows
really fast and uses the html and error.
Select randomly among unretrieved
page to sort of fill the thing up.
That means this spidering will go,
it'll build lots of links really fast.
The number that will retrieve will be
small compared to the number we'll find.
because on this there's
an average of 25 links a page,
because we're going through our name data.
We have this many-to-many relationship,
Pages upon itself, or Pages onto itself.
Which is really two many-to-one
relationships with two foreign keys, but
really, the way to think about this
is two foreign keys that go to the same
table, because it's one page
linking to another page, all right?
The from page and the to page,
so the from is where the link is at and
the to is where the link is going to.
So let's take a look at the code.
Let's take a look at this now from the
perspective of code and see what we got.
So this is the code that we're looking at.
This is the code that we've been running.
And so, we're going to import sqlite,
import urllib,
ssl if you're going to do SSL, https,
and then of course, BeautifulSoup.
This is really a combination
a lot of things that we've done.
If you have problems with SSL, there's
comments in the code that'll try to help
you figure out how to make the SSL work,
so look for that in the code or
in the README.
But this is not https so
it's a little easier.
spider.sqlite is the database that
we're going to store this in.
A cursor is kind of our way
to talk to that database.
The first thing we're going to do is
create these three tables, Pages,
which is a URL, the HTML, the error, and
then old rank and new rank.
So the first phase we're really
working on the url, html and error,
during the spidering phase,
then we have the Links which is just
two integers, from_id and to_id.
And then Webs is just a little scratch
space for us to store the file.
So here we just check
to see with a select,
to see if the Webs is already there.
If we got some unused pages.
So, we select id and url from Pages
where html is null and error is null.
This is the thing I said,
that's how we determine unretrieved.
And there's this little nice thing, order
by random, which says pick effectively
a random page among the unretrieved pages,
and limit it to one.
So that just gives us one.
So we fetch a URL, and if we have no
unretrieved pages, we just kind of quit.
But basically, if we have unretrieved
pages we just keep on going, and
we have to remove that file
if we want to restart.
And here, otherwise, we just basically
ask the user for a starting URL.
If they don't specify one
we take a default, and
then we snip it up a little bit and
then we put it in this Webs.
We put in the Webs so
that we remember where we started and
then we also put in the Page.
So we're putting this in to wake it up, so
we're putting in the URL, the HTML, but
we're setting the html to null and
giving it page rank of 1.0,
which we'll explain later.
And so what we do is at the end of this
statement, we have one unretrieved page,
which is the page that the user typed in,
okay?
So now, we grab all the Webs.
This could work with more than one page,
but right now it only works with one page,
so you can kind of ignore this little bit.
So now we have a while loop,
an infinite while loop,
that's going to ask,
how many page do you want to run?
And then it's going to
run this many pages.
And so this is the code that
we're going to do for each page.
We're going to select id and url from Pages,
again where html is null and
error is null, order by random.
That basically is saying grab a random
unretrieved page and grab it and
we fetch one row from the database, we grab
the from_id. that will become our from_id
because this is the page that
we're about to retrieve, so
that's the primary key of
the page record, and then the url.
And if we don't find any records,
well, we're done.
We're out of stuff to retrieve and if you
do a really tiny web site, it will stop.
It'll say, I've retrieved all my pages.
Like, if you start at
www.doctorchuck.com/page1.htm it will
retrieve two pages and
then it'll be like, I'm done.
Okay, so now it's going to print that out,
the from_id,
which is the primary key, and
the URL it's going to retrieve.
This is not necessarily going to be
necessary unless we're going to somehow
stumble and re-retrieve something.
We're going to delete from
Links where from_id equals and
then the page we're retrieving.
There should be no links in there
because we haven't yet retrieved it.
But that's just in case. It doesn't
hurt anything to not delete it.
So, here's a way or some comments about
how to deal with the SSL anomalies.
But if you're just doing a regular HTTP,
we're going to open the URL like
we've done many other times.
We're going to read the thing.
We're going to check to see if
we didn't get a 200 error code.
404 means not found.
500 means server error.
200 means all good.
So if it's anything other than 200, we're
going to update Pages and set the error.
So it means if we're going to have
a problem with this page, with an error,
then we're going to just
not going to retrieve it again,
because we have to either set the error
to non null, or the html to non null,
otherwise, we'll keep retrieving
the same page all over and over again.
So we just record the error, and if we
see it then we go in our database and
figure out which ones are having errors,
etc., etc. We're only going to look at HTML
because all the page have content types. So if
the content type is not text/html, like it's an
XML file or a jpg or something, we'll have
retrieved it but we're done.
And so if we don't like that, right,
we're going to delete from Pages,
we're going to take that
thing right out of there.
We don't want that URL, there's no
reason to keep it, away we go, okay?
And then we commit it. And then we print in
parentheses how long the characters are.
And then we call Beautiful Soup,
okay, to parse it.
And if we have a problem,
KeyboardInterrupt,
that's mostly during this phase, we're
in the middle of a big try block here.
If something goes wrong,
KeyboardInterrupt, that means you press
Ctrl+C and it shows how you can have
something that runs a long time,
press Ctrl+C and then we control it,
we're catching that.
Press the Ctrl+C or Ctrl+Z. Or
if there's some other kind of funky thing
we'll print out an error message
that says we couldn't retrieve it,
and we're going to set error equals -1 so
that we don't re-retrieve this page again.
And so part of the idea is that
we're always taking that Pages table and
making sure that when we retrieve
something in the Pages table, Pages table.
If we either are going to put some HTML
in there or something in the error,
because it's always looking for
a URL that still has not been either
retrieved successfully or had a problem.
So you notice, all the code comes
through and eventually sets the html or
sets the error, Remember,
we're not doing anything with old_rank and
new_rank right yet.
Okay, so this one here.
At this point, once we're here,
it looks like we've got a good page.
This page is an HTML page,
we didn't get an error, it parsed okay.
Beautiful Soup liked it.
Beautiful Soup might blow up here.
If Beautiful Soup blows up,
we're going to run this code.
Okay? So we're just,
once we've got to this line,
line 106 in this particular bit of code,
we're good.
So what are we going to do?
Well, we're going to insert
into that page, insert or
ignore into Pages, where that URL equals,
and that probably, let's see,
that URL should already be in there.
And so that'll mostly will be ignored,
because it's probably already in there,
because we just pulled it up.
But then we're going to do an update.
I'm doing this because it's just,
I'm being sure that it,
maybe it's not there.
But update Pages, set html=, where url=.
This is the real work here.
Buffer is just kind of converting
that to the right format, so
the database is happy with it. Now
at that point we've updated it.
And what we did is we put in to,
that's where we put this HTML in.
That's both so we can look at it later,
if we want to debug what's going on.
Or to make sure we don't
retrieve it twice.
We've already got that one.
We don't want to retrieve for Pages twice.
So, at that point we're done.
Now, all we're going to do is
go through and retrieve the anchor tags.
And we've done code like this before.
So, give me a list of all these anchor tags,
loop through them.
Get the href, if we had no href, then
we going do some parsing on the href.
This is some kind of yucky stuff
that I just figured out, slowly but
surely beating it into submission.
Parsing it, throwing away suffixes,
joining these things,
getting rid of pound sign anchors on them.
But eventually,
we get a decent href out of this thing.
The next thing we do is we check to
see If this is a URL that's actually
leaving the page, right?
So if we're start here we're
going to stay in that page and
do all the child pages or all the pages
in the same URL and below and so
this is really saying look, if we're not in
it, just don't URLs that are leaving.
And then at this point we're going
to insert or ignore into Pages
the URL And html is null,
because we haven't retrieved this page,
and so this is our way of marking that
we have a new page to work with.
We're just inserting it,
then we're committing it,
to make sure it ends up in the database.
Okay, so if this page is on the same site,
we're going to insert it into Pages. Right?
So we got the URL, which is
really the href, The href of the link.
The htmlL is null,
because we haven't retrieved it yet, and
a new rank always starts out at one.
Now, we have to figure out here,
what the id is, because it was an
autoincrement, so we're going to do a select
id from Pages where url equals the href.
Now, this is the to page,
not the from page.
So, we're going to grab that URL, And
we're going to grab the to ID.
If you recall, way, way, way,
way up here, way up here.
Way up here somewhere we have from_id
because we're in a outer loop that's going
through the pages being retrieved.
Now we're in a inner loop of finding all
the links and so we have the from_id and
we have added the page to the to be
retrieved pages. Then we've got a primary
key for that page which is this.
The to_id is the primary key for
the page that we're just inserting.
And now we're going to insert
into the Links from_id and to_id.
Okay and so that is what adds each time
we add a new page to the bottom of
this field right there,
we're also adding in
the bottom of the Links
something down here.
A link from that page, from
the from page to the to page.
And then we're doing this over and
over and over and
over again printing the count.
So this isn't too complex of a thing,
it's really a combination of
a lot of stuff that we've done.
So now let's just fire it up and
let it run.
So I'm going to say give me 30 pages. And
so it's going to start retrieving pages.
[SOUND] So, each one of these
pages has a bunch of links on it.
Get some data, parse it,
get a bunch of links,
from, to, all the stuff is being updated.
Let's do 20 more pages, why not.
Now I'll just hit Enter.
Okay, I'm going to do something else.
I'm going to do 20 pages but
then I'm going to hit Ctrl+C
to show you that that's okay.
Duh duh duh duh, it'll blow up.
Now, this might be blown up because
your laptop went to sleep or
the network connection crapped out or
something.
Whatever.
This thing is designed to pick
right up where it left off,
because we can now go get five pages and
it just keeps on going, okay?
And so I just hit Enter and so
I have a bunch of pages in my thing and so
if I hit the refresh here,
we're going to see a gillion links, right?
We got like 6100 links that we've modeled.
Let's see how many pages we have.
Let me refresh that.
We've got about 3800 pages but
you'll notice that we still have very few
that have really been retrieved, right?
So we don't have a lot
that were retrieved and
that's because every time we retrieve
we'll get like a hundred more links.
The thing just keeps going.
Now Google, of course, has done
this longer than you or I, so
they've kind of got all the links, but
for us we don't have all the links.
So, let's just grabs
some more at least some,
I should have just had this run for
a while.
So we want to have enough data in here so
that we can have some people who
got more links than other people.
So, we have to, we really want to get
to the point where we have someone that
points to someone, points to someone
that points back to someone.
And that's the interesting
part about page rank. Okay?
So, I'll wait and let this fill up and
then will come back and
we'll talk about the Page Rank algorithm.